---
layout: post
title: "Codeforces #1019B: The hat 题解"
date: 2018-8-13
categories: [OI, 交互题]
tags: [Codeforces, 交互题, 思维]
excerpt: "The solution of Codeforces #1019B"
mathjax: true
---

## Description

**This is an interactive problem.**

Imur Ishakov decided to organize a club for people who love to play the famous game «The hat». The club was visited by n students, where n is even. Imur arranged them all in a circle and held a draw to break the students in pairs, but something went wrong. The participants are numbered so that participant i and participant i + 1 (1 ≤ i ≤ n - 1) are adjacent, as well as participant n and participant 1. Each student was given a piece of paper with a number in such a way, that for every two adjacent students, these numbers differ exactly by one. The plan was to form students with the same numbers in a pair, but it turned out that not all numbers appeared exactly twice.

<!-- more -->

As you know, the most convenient is to explain the words to the partner when he is sitting exactly across you. Students with numbers i and sit across each other. Imur is wondering if there are two people sitting across each other with the same numbers given. Help him to find such pair of people if it exists.

You can ask questions of form «which number was received by student i?», and the goal is to determine whether the desired pair exists in no more than 60 questions.

## Input

At the beginning the even integer n (2 ≤ n ≤ 100 000) is given — the total number of students.

You are allowed to ask no more than 60 questions.

## Output

To ask the question about the student i (1 ≤ i ≤ n), you should print «? i». Then from standard output you can read the number ai received by student i ( - 109 ≤ ai ≤ 109).

When you find the desired pair, you should print «! i», where i is any student who belongs to the pair (1 ≤ i ≤ n). If you determined that such pair doesn’t exist, you should output «! -1». In both cases you should immediately terminate the program.

The query that contains your answer is not counted towards the limit of 60 queries.

Please make sure to flush the standard output after each command. For example, in C++ use function fflush(stdout), in Java call System.out.flush(), in Pascal use flush(output) and stdout.flush() for Python language.

## Hacking

Use the following format for hacking:

In the first line, print one even integer n (2 ≤ n ≤ 100 000) — the total number of students.

In the second line print n integers ai ( - 109 ≤ ai ≤ 109) separated by spaces, where ai is the number to give to i-th student. Any two adjacent elements, including n and 1, must differ by 1 or  - 1.

The hacked solution will not have direct access to the sequence ai.

## Examples

input 

8
2
2

output

? 4
? 8
! 4

input

6
1
2
3
2
1
0

output

? 1
? 2
? 3
? 4
? 5
? 6
! -1

## Note

Input-output in statements illustrates example interaction.

In the first sample the selected sequence is 1, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 3, 2

In the second sample the selection sequence is 1, 2, 3, 2, 1, 0.

## Solution 

交互题毁我青春……本人不擅长做动脑子的题，这个花了整场比赛才做出来，于是rnk在2题里面垫底。。。

既然次数只有60次，感觉每次肯定要查询相对的两个人，相当于查询30组，估计是二分相关

我们永远考虑位置相对的两个扇形，设上面的扇形上的数字从a到A,下面的扇形上的数字从b到B

通过仔细的观察，我们能发现一些结论：

如果$abs(a-b)\equiv 1(mod 2)$，那么这两个扇形区域内必然没有任何一组数相等

如果$a>b$且$A<B$，那这两个扇形区域内必然有一组数相等

如果(a,A),(b,B)两个区间不相交，那么这两个扇形区域内必然没有任何一组数相等

进而我们可以发现，对于相对的两个扇形，我们二分出中间的一条线，把他们切成两组扇形，这两组扇形要么有一组铁定无解，要么至少有一组铁定有解，无论是哪一种情况，我们都可以把另一半扔掉，在必定有解的那一半里继续二分

这就是大概的思路了

## Code

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>
using namespace std;

#define LL long long
#define LB long double
#define ull unsigned long long
#define x first
#define y second
#define pb push_back
#define pf push_front
#define mp make_pair
#define Pair pair<int,int>
#define pLL pair<LL,LL>
#define pii pair<double,double>

const int INF=2e9;
const LL LINF=2e16;
const int magic=348;
const int MOD=998244353;
const double eps=1e-10;
const double pi=acos(-1);

inline int getint()
{
    bool f;char ch;int res;
    while (!isdigit(ch=getchar()) && ch!='-') {}
    if (ch=='-') f=false,res=0; else f=true,res=ch-'0';
    while (isdigit(ch=getchar())) res=res*10+ch-'0';
    return f?res:-res;
}

int n;
int a,A,b,B,m,M;

inline int myabs(int x) {return x>=0?x:-x;}

inline bool check_invalid()
{
    if (myabs(a-b)%2==0) return false;
    if (myabs(A-B)%2==0) return false;
    return true;
}

inline bool Contain(int l1,int r1,int l2,int r2)
{
    if (l1>l2 && r1<r2) return true;
    if (l1<l2 && r1>r2) return true;
    return false;
}

inline bool Away(int l1,int r1,int l2,int r2)
{
    if (l1>r1) swap(l1,r1);
    if (l2>r2) swap(l2,r2);
    return r1<l2 || r2<l1;
}

int main ()
{
    n=getint();
    if (n==2)
    {
        printf("? 1\n");fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&a);
        printf("? 2\n");fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&A);
        if (a==A) printf("! 1\n"); else printf("! -1\n");
        return 0;
    }
    int la=1,lA=n/2;
    printf("? 1\n");fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&a);
    printf("? %d\n",lA);fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&A);
    printf("? %d\n",la+n/2);fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&b);
    printf("? %d\n",lA+n/2);fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&B);
    if (a==b)
    {
        printf("! 1\n");
        return 0;
    }
    if (A==B)
    {
        printf("! %d\n",lA);
        return 0;
    }
    if (check_invalid()) {printf("! -1\n");return 0;}
    while (lA-la>1)
    {
        int mid=(la+lA)>>1,to=mid+n/2;
        printf("? %d\n",mid);fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&m);
        printf("? %d\n",to);fflush(stdout);scanf("%d",&M);
        if (m==M)
        {
            printf("! %d\n",mid);
            return 0;
        }
        if (Contain(a,m,b,M)) {lA=mid;A=m;B=M;continue;}
        if (Contain(m,A,M,B)) {la=mid;a=m;b=M;continue;}
        if (Away(a,m,b,M)) {la=mid;a=m;b=M;continue;}
        if (Away(m,A,M,B)) {lA=mid;A=m;B=M;continue;}
    }
    if (a==b) {printf("! %d\n",la);return 0;}
    if (A==B) {printf("! %d\n",lA);return 0;}
    printf("! -1\n");return 0;
}
```